
# 3. Strings and Characters

### Exercise 3.1

Create the string "Detroit Red Wings" from the following variables/constants and assign it to the constant `hockeyTeam`:

```Swift
let city: String = "Detroit"
var color = "Red"
let wings = "Wings"
```

First do it using concatenation and then again using interpolation.

<details>
<summary>Solution</summary>
  
```Swift
let city: String = "Detroit"
var color = "Red"
let wings = "Wings"

let hockeyTeam1 = city + " " + color + " " + wings
let hockeyTeam2 = "\(city) \(color) \(wings)"
```
</details>

### Exercise 3.2

Assign the length of the string "4, 8, 15, 16, 23, 42" to the variable `length`.

<details>
<summary>Solution</summary>

```Swift
let length = "4, 8, 15, 16, 23, 42".characters.count
```
</details>

### Exercise 3.3

The book states that you can modify/mutate a string by making it a variable and not a constant, as follows:

```Swift
var variableString = "Detroit"
variableString += " Red Wings"
```

How does this work with regards to strings being value types?

<details>
<summary>Solution</summary>
It is not obvious how it works. Most of the time, strings will be copied (although they're actually referenced until they are mutated for optimization reasons, but you can consider them to be copies). However, some operations will actually modify the buffer where the string is stored in memory. These operations, such as .append(), are marked with the keyword `mutating` in the String reference documentation.

So, the question is, what is the `+=` operator treated as in the example? Is it treated as:

```Swift
var variableString = "Detroit" + " Red Wings"
```

OR, is it treated as:

```Swift
var variableString = "Detroit"
variableString.append(" Red Wings")
```

My guess is the latter. However, if the buffer is filled up, a new buffer will be allocated and the string will be copied anyway. Depending on how Swift allocates string buffers, it may or may not matter. Feel free to look this up and educate us. :-)
</details>




